Okay, everybody. Uh, thank you. Uh, this
is the Town of Andover Board of Finance,
uh, regular meeting on Wednesday,
October 22nd, 2025. Uh, we'll call the
meeting to order and recite the pledge
of allegiance. I pledge allegiance to
the flag of the United States of America
and to the republic
nation under Godisible
justice for all.
>> Okay. Thank you. Our first order of
business is public speak. Looks um I'll
just go ahead I guess uh
uh
Eric first person I see is Valerie
Bruno.
Valerie, you have anything to
>> discuss?
>> You're muted, Valerie.
>> Looks like she's not muted, but it's
not. We're not hearing any audio.
>> No, can't hear you.
And you're frozen now. I think you might
have a connection problem.
>> Yeah. So, I'm seeing her move. So,
>> she's moving.
>> Yeah, that's true.
>> We'll come back to you. Um,
>> uh, Linda Fish,
>> all set. Thanks.
>> Okay. Uh, I see Sharon St. Rock.
>> Uh, nothing at this time. Thank you.
>> Thanks. And Scott Pan.
>> Scott, you muted. I don't know if you
have anything to uh add during the
public speak of the board of finance.
>> Good. Thank you, Mark.
>> Okay. Thank you.
And back to Valerie.
>> You're muted now.
>> Yeah, you are muted now. You're unmuted.
There you go.
>> No, I still can't hear you.
>> Goodness gracious. Uh
>> maybe try logging out and logging back
in, Valerie. I don't know. Yeah.
I don't know what the problem is here.
All right.
I think we can we could probably come
back to her and we talk about the school
project or something be appropriate. So,
see if she can get logged back in for a
second. I don't want to delay too long.
If I stop moving, I'm probably not
frozen. It's just that I'm in my uh
spare room that we don't heat during the
winter, and I'm starting to feel it. So,
>> I may I may become uh immobile from mud
>> from uh hypothermia.
>> Little chilly in there, huh? Yeah. Uh
Valerie, I see you're back. Do you want
to try to speak? We have We don't have
video, but you appear to be joined the
meeting
and we're not hearing you if you're uh
if you're speaking.
She's out again. Um I'll tell you what,
let's go ahead and move on. There will
be another opportunity for public
speaking from Valerie. We certainly
could could you know if she has anything
to add to the bathroom renovation
project agenda item we could talk then
uh does anybody on the board of finance
have proposed changes or additions to
the agenda tonight?
>> Okay hearing none we'll move on to
agenda item four which is the town
administrators report. there.
Okay. So, I don't have all that much to
uh report. Most of you know I submitted
my resignation to the town of Andover
uh on October 15th and my last day uh is
November 15th. Um so I will be moving on
to a different town. Um, this Friday,
the board of selectmen is holding a
special meeting in the morning to uh
hopefully
uh appoint an interim town manager uh
for three month three to four months
until a permanent replacement can be
hired. Um whether they choose to do that
or not, I don't know, but I've given
them the option um and made the
connection for them. Um, right now
really all I'm trying to do is wrap up
grant projects that are ongoing. Uh, so
that I hand whoever takes over from me a
clean
uh, you know, pathway to to keep the
projects that are in motion now uh,
continue to be in motion.
Um, other than that, it's it's obviously
going to be interesting because the
board of finance is going to go into a
budget season
uh really without a permanent town
manager probably
and probably without the use of a uh
treasurer. So, that's going to be a
little challenging on your part. Um
however I am working with Chris Erica
Kelly uh to set up um so we give all the
boards the the first thing that needs to
happen um which is the uh board the
boards to get back with their proposed
budgets and the same thing for the
department heads that usually goes out
December 1st and I'm working with her to
ensure that uh that goes that goes on.
So,
um after that collating that I assume is
going to be the responsibility of either
the interim or the uh incoming
uh town administrator. So, that's pretty
much what I have. I'll certainly answer
any questions that you have as a board.
>> I have a question.
>> Go ahead, Louise.
>> For Friday, is there any way we can make
that a Zoom meeting as well? both of
those meetings that are scheduled
for those people who won't be able to
attend.
>> Uh that's a first selectment or a board
of selectment question. It would
be theoretically possible maybe. I mean
we're not our main meeting room is being
occupied for early voting. So we're
going to be in the community center. We
could potentially move the equipment
over there, but that's their decision as
to whether they want to do a hybrid
meeting or not.
>> Okay. Because some people are asking and
I just wanted to put it out there.
>> Yeah.
>> Thanks.
>> Question. Hey, Eric. Um,
last year when we were working on the
budget, you had, and I thought it was
part of the big,
um, townwide budget spreadsheet, there
was a section with all the town,
uh, capital projects and grants and
stuff.
Can you get that to us um, in whatever?
I mean, it was really nice last year and
I looked at the most recent budget that
we had, the the most updated budget that
we had and I didn't see those tabs in
there.
>> So, the the reason that are not there is
I give that to you as a separate
standalone capital document. Um, the
only thing I want to caution you is when
I turn that over and the board of
finance starts making their changes, um,
I stop updating that. So, that's not
going to have necessarily the exact
final budgeted amounts in there. Um,
because at that point, it's basically
your document uh, to but I can certainly
get the last version I have back to you.
Um, which which would be a great
starting point.
Yeah. I mean, I realized that there were
final updates made to the budget as a
whole, which obviously once we took it,
you wouldn't, you know, you relinquish
responsibility. I got that. Um, but
>> I just didn't see those other tabs and
pages.
>> Yeah, they're not on the main they're
not they were never on the main budget
document. It was always a standalone
capital funds document that I provided.
But I can certainly provide that. Again,
>> it's in an Excel spreadsheet, right?
Okay. That's what I'm talking about.
Yep.
>> Yep.
>> Thank you.
>> I guess Liz kind of I was going to ask a
question before because you you know, we
talked about this at the tri board
meeting too that the treasurer is also
resigning. I think you said as of
November and we won't have a treasurer.
And I I think kind of Liz's question
went hand in hand. What is what is the
plan for the treasurer's office? I know
you mentioned Chris and I know she's a
great asset in that office. Has there
been any decision made or will they look
for a treasurer? Because as you said
with you leaving, the treasurer leaving
a lot of, you know, members of the board
of finance that have had a lot of years
of experience in looking at these things
will no longer be there. I just wondered
what what was going on with the town as
far as the treasurer spot.
>> We have to hire a treasurer.
>> Yeah, we're going to have to. But that's
um I think that should be the person
coming in. Uh that's too key a position
right now. I don't you know I don't want
to saddle anybody future with with a
treasure they don't like. So I think
that should be there. And then one
followup just because it was brought
Rob, sorry to interrupt. I just want to
get my two cents out and then I'll back
up.
>> Go ahead. Go ahead.
>> Um, thank you, Rob. Um, and I know that
it was brought up among the board of
finance members and in your presence,
Eric, and probably some of the board of
selectmen members, too, that with the
changes and and of course, I won't be
involved. So, I'm just it's my last time
to ask the question, so I appreciate it.
It's like what'll happen with with I
think some people were concerned with
too many people making changes to that
spreadsheet. So I hope going forward
that maybe the board of selectmen would
address it that it would happen in the
treasurer's office and you know when you
hire a new one again that's all I just
want to bring that up because I know it
was spoken about in multiple meetings
and it's not anybody's fault but with
multiple people making changes or
putting in information there can be
mistakes made
that's all
>> other questions for Eric
>> yeah So, uh, Eric, that document you
provided us at CIP,
>> uh, did you distribute that to the the
board of finance or no? Uh, can you once
we made one small change to it, but um,
once that's revised, can you send that
to everybody?
>> That was a great document.
>> First of all, I apologize. I left to go
to the other meeting before the
committee actually.
>> I don't know what change you made.
>> Oh, it's minor. It's minor. It has to it
just has to do with the um you had kind
of a hit list of four things I think it
was on there of things to do um sort of
prioritization.
>> I think it was appendix two or something
like that
>> and we tacked on we sort of changed it a
little bit to to to address specifically
the uh stove hood in the center.
>> That's all Fred has it. Um, but it I was
hoping he'd email you, but it was just a
small change to that to just to say
instead of a line about we can address
the remaining things at the community
center to zero in on that one small
thing because that's easy to knock off.
It was Ed's suggestion. So, but other
than that, that document was incredibly
comprehensive and I think would be super
useful for everybody on this board and
everybody on the select board to have.
Uh the board both boards did get a copy
of that report.
>> Okay.
>> Um in addition to it going out to CIP
directly. So if I get from Fred what the
change is, I would be happy to make it.
Um, in truth, one of my concerns with
doing the hood as a standalone project
is that building still does not have a
fire alarm system. And I'm a little
concerned with having a
>> I didn't know that.
>> Uh, a large commercial stove running
when you don't have a fire alarm in the
building. And that's kind of why I've
been
not trying to push that because I think
that's, you know, the the hood is
actually a lot cheaper than the fire
alarm system. I really kind of think
they should get done. They don't
technically have to. Um the fire
marshall is willing to sign off because
of the occupancy of the building and the
size. It is perfectly legal to have a
hood with no anel system and no fire uh
alarm in the building. Um
I just don't think it's a particularly
good idea.
>> Can you remind me I'm sorry. I remember
because I read through that document a
couple times while we were having our
meeting. Did is the fire the lack of the
fire alarm system in there?
>> Good question.
>> I I don't recall seeing it, Eric. That's
why I asked. Sure.
>> That seems like something we should we
should tack on. If it's not in that
document now,
>> it should go in there.
>> The fire alarm was one of the things in
the grant proposal for the federal
legislative funds.
>> Okay. uh with the intent that that get
done as part of that project because we
would be knocking off a whole bunch of
things at once when we did the generator
and the updates to the basement and
finished off the final things in the
kitchen and did the fire alarm.
>> All right. Maybe maybe it was in one of
the appendices and I didn't notice it.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> That's possible. But if it's not in
there, I would think it should be put in
somewhere just to to alert people
because that's something I was not at
all keyed into. I don't think any of us
when we had that CIP meeting realized
that because I, you know, Ed was really
big on the idea of, hey, look, we just
get that hooded and then we have a
commercial kitchen up and running. Um,
it's a small thing and we can get that
building up and running. Um, but if
that's a concern, then I feel like that
has to be in there.
>> Well, I don't know whether it's a
concern. It's a concern to me. It
doesn't mean it's a concern to everybody
else,
>> right? Certainly not.
>> It's certainly not something you're
legally required to do,
>> right? I I No, I I'm I'm following you.
I'm just saying it makes a lot of sense
to at least put it in there as a
concern. Even if even if we go ahead
without it, I think that that if that
document just included a line about
that, it would be helpful. That's all.
Uh I'm I'm good. I'm done. Uh I just
want to
>> put it down on my pad. I I will address
that
>> because that that document's awesome.
It's um it's a very comprehensive look
at all of our buildings, all of our
capital projects, the whole nine. Um it
was very very good and I think
especially because we're going to have a
lot of new blood coming in. Uh, we want
to have that thing about as well put
together as we can. So, thanks Erica.
Appreciate it.
>> One question about that. Going back, is
there a working I would assume there's a
working um like sprinkler system in
there? Is it just there's no alarm
itself or there's not even a sprinkler
system?
>> You might assume that, but you would be
incorrect. There is no sprinkler system
in that building nor is there a fire
alarm.
What is it been plumbed for a sprinkler
system?
>> No, it has not.
>> That was designed right from the start
not to have a sprink not to be
sprinkled. There are no town buildings
that I know of that have sprinkler
systems.
Can we put standalone
in and in meanwhile if it does get
hooked up like standalone smoke alarms
and
just so we have something if that
>> I think there's one or two standalone
smoke alarms in the building but they're
not connected to anything. They don't
report out to anything.
>> Um
>> so they don't make a call to the fire
department is what you're saying.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. No, there's no there's no
monitoring at all. Um
>> Okay.
>> Yep.
>> Someone just has to run fast across the
parking lot. Liz,
>> 911.
>> I mean, they are right there, but
>> Well, if somebody hears it, if it
happens at night, nothing's going to
happen. Well,
>> that's true.
>> Yeah,
>> Other questions for me?
It has been a pleasure working for all
of with and for all of you over the
years. Um,
and uh, good luck with with the future
board of finance stuff. Looks like you
guys are going to have your work cut out
for you for the next year.
>> Good luck yourself.
>> Thank you very
>> definitely going to miss you. We're all
about just
>> I'm gonna have to learn about some small
town in Massachusetts now to to follow
your doings.
>> No cyber stalking.
>> No, no, no, no. I would never.
Okay. Uh thank you everybody. Uh we'll
go ahead and move on to the next agenda
item um which we discussed in our last
meeting which is the nomination and
election of a new board chair. Uh we
don't really have a way to do this via
secret ballot or anything. I think it's
just that we would take nominations and
just vote on somebody understanding that
this is
uh I would think that this would just be
an interim position and that the new
board would elect a a new chair uh come
November uh once you're settled in. So
uh I'll open the floor for nominations.
Uh Kim,
>> yes, I would like to nominate Liz Lochek
as the chair for the board of finance.
I'll
>> second. Okay. Uh Louise seconds. Okay.
>> I'll nominate Bill,
>> but I think we got to entertain one
motion at a time.
>> Okay.
>> Um
>> fair enough.
>> So, it's a little bit of an odd way to
do it, but uh you know, this is just
kind of how it goes, I guess. Um any
discussion?
I guess I would ask um the current board
members that would be left who is there
someone that has strong interest in in
are we only are we only allowed to
discuss Liz at this point right
>> strike that
>> yeah I think for all intents and
purposes Liz I assume you're willing and
able
>> to serve in this role at least on an
interim basis
>> I am willing and able
um I'm pretty engaged I'm pretty engaged
anyway in attending all the meetings and
trying to be prepared. Um, so I am
willing and able.
>> Okay.
>> Any other questions for Liz?
>> And just to be clarified, this is
interim until after the election and
then we'll do it again.
>> Correct.
>> That would be my suggestion. I mean, the
board had originally set a policy of uh
nominating a new a new chair on a reg on
an annual basis. Um, it makes sense to
do it after the election cycle. Um, the
reason we're doing this on an interim
basis right now is because both Joanne
and I uh will not be on the board going
forward. So, we want to have a an
>> Yep.
>> a chair person in place to run the next
meeting at a minimum and handle any
interim board business.
>> I just wanted that to be clear. That's
all.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And then I think it's it's
just up to the board to decide going
forward.
Okay. Um,
you know, I guess my only comment would
be, you know, I've talked a little bit
about what the role of the chair is. Uh,
as I see it, uh, the important thing is
to manage the meetings efficiently, but
also to be, uh, fair and legal. Um,
there's there's some nuances there. I
know nobody's an expert in this, but uh
certainly uh uh you know, you do a
little reading up, etc. It's it's fine.
Um you know, and I'm I'm you know,
Joanne and I'm sure will both be
available to answer any questions people
have about uh about uh going forward. Uh
the main thing is to uh stick generally
to the agenda. Um uh you can change the
agenda as we always have in our in our
regular meeting agenda. We have that
opportunity to change it. you do not
have that opportunity in a special
meeting. So, just one of the things to
keep in mind. Um, yeah, I don't have
anything else.
Nobody has anything else. So, just I
guess let's call a vote. All those in
favor say I.
>> I.
>> I was just going to abstain, Mark. I
just felt like the people that were
going to be serving on the board should
vote. But I mean, if my vote was needed,
I
>> Well, that's fine. You can abstain. And
so I hear no any nays and one
abstension. Is that okay?
>> All right. Sounds good. Thank you, Liz.
You are the new chair of the board of
finance. Good luck.
So, I'm going to actually hand the uh
the meeting over to you. Um certainly
obviously we can we can uh provide any
guidance that's required. Um but
>> Mark before you do that I just want
>> speak probably for the whole board how
we appreciate your time spent on it as
well.
>> Absolutely.
>> Thank you.
Thank you Mark.
>> Yeah.
>> Thank you Mark. Thank you Joanne for
your all your years of service time.
Thank you.
>> Thank you. Thank you for the nice
emails. I appreciated it too.
>> Yeah,
>> it's been a pleasure.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, it has been an honor and
>> yeah, I'm sure neither know Joanne and I
are going anywhere. So, we're here to
here to support you guys any way we can.
>> Absolutely. Yeah.
>> Okay.
>> I just wanted
>> Oh, sorry. Go ahead. I just saw that
Valerie had joined the meeting again.
Were you gonna have her speak as part of
public speak? I didn't know if she was
hanging in the whole meeting.
>> Well, we've moved on. You know, again
here acting as my as an former chair, I
would say that we probably need to wait
either until the next public speak
session or until uh if we want to have
her speak during the uh the new business
we have an item for the status of the
bathroom renovation,
>> you know, uh she'd be the person to
address that. I mean, our main goal with
that topic when I added it to the agenda
was to make sure we had a discussion
point and kind of formally request a
status update from the school uh
district. So, there may or may not be
anything that uh Valerie's can provide
to us tonight, but that's really what
that point was and I'm sure that'll be a
standing item on our business until such
time forward. Yep. Liz, go ahead. It's
yours. I'm going to You can call in Rob.
We'll go from there and I'll try to I'll
mute myself because I'm gonna be in the
habit of calling on people if I see a
hand raised. So,
>> all right. Thank you everybody.
>> Okay. Yeah, this is going to be tricky
because I'm uh I'm trying to look at the
um agenda while
keeping track of people.
>> We need We need a vice chair as well, do
we not? So, that was what I was ask.
You're gonna do fine, Liz. Don't sweat
it.
Um, yeah. So, if if we need a vice chair
as well, so I was going to go ahead and
nominate somebody, but you let me know
when you're ready. Do
>> we need a vice chair for for now or can
we wait till actually we have our
elections back
>> just in case somebody's sick or somebody
can't make it or what happens? I would
think we should have a vice chair just
to just in case. I mean, I'm sure Liz
will be there, but
>> Okay.
>> I would agree. I would agree.
>> Not a bad idea.
>> Yeah. And it can't be me. It can't be
Jo. and Kevin Mark. So, you know, um so
I have my thought. Uh but let me know
when you're ready, Liz.
>> Um I'm ready. I also had a thought.
That's
>> okay.
>> I also had a thought.
>> Very good. Uh so, well, you know, sorry,
Bill. I I was going to nominate you for
chair, but I'll nominate you for vice
chair just for at least temporarily.
>> Um you know, that's my take.
Okay, Liz, you should call for a second.
>> Anybody?
>> Anybody got a second?
>> I'm gonna second it. And I'm going to
say because there were multiple times
that, you know, Mark couldn't make the
meeting and it is important to have a
backup. So, I'll second Bill's
nomination there.
>> Right. Hopefully, Bill, you're okay with
that.
>> I am. Sure.
>> Okay. Good.
>> Not like I discussed this before.
>> Any discussion for any discussion?
And I think it's important probably
again I'm not going to be on the board
but an interim position too, right? Like
you've all said it'll be interim. It's
good to have people in place. You know
things happen and people need answers if
information is going back and forth.
That's all.
>> Yep.
>> Any further discussion?
>> Okay. Hearing none, we will take a vote.
All in favor say I.
>> I.
>> I'll abstain.
>> We've got So we've got Mark as a yes.
Rob as a yes.
>> Obviously is my motion.
>> Joanne.
>> Joanne as a yes. Mark.
>> I didn't vote, but I will say yes since
I nominated him.
Since we're doing
>> seconded it. Yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> Louise
>> seconded it. Yeah.
>> No. No. I I seconded uh Liz.
Okay. So, Louise, are you a yes or a no?
>> Oh. Um, um, no.
So, we have
>> no hard feelings, Bill.
>> Mark is a yes. Rob is a yes.
>> Joanne, you're a
>> That's three.
So, it's a tie. Not a tie, but like it's
not enough.
Okay.
>> So, what happens in a tie?
>> Well, okay.
>> Motion fails. Motion fails on a tie.
>> Okay. Okay.
>> Who abained?
>> Who?
>> I abained.
>> Can't vote for yourself, right?
>> Can't vote for myself.
>> No. No. Can't take your side in the
right argument.
>> Well, you can.
>> Tradition would call for you to abstain.
>> Yeah. tradition is one thing, but norms
and all that.
>> Okay.
>> I think the board's going to be just
fine, but I mean, I just thought it
would work if
with so many people leaving, it might be
a good idea to have people like that.
That's
>> I'd like to make a motion.
>> Go ahead, Louise.
>> I'd like to
>> I'd like to elect uh Kim Persan as the
co-chairman. I think they both
chairperson
>> Liz and Kim both work very well
together.
>> I'll second it.
>> Just a point of clarification, Louise,
you said co-chairman. Did you mean to
say vice chairman or do you intend to
say co-chair?
>> That's that's correct. Vice chairman.
>> Understood. Thanks for that.
What's the difference between the two?
>> I don't think there is such a thing as
>> No, a co-chairman would hold equal rank,
equal position. So you'd have two you'd
have two co-chairman or multiple
co-chairmen.
>> No vice.
Okay. So I any discussion?
>> Any further discussion?
Yeah, I seconded it.
>> You seconded it. Okay.
>> Okay. Uh, hearing none.
All in favor say I.
>> I.
>> Mark.
>> I'm sorry. Okay. Joan's a yes. Mark.
Rob. Nay,
>> Bill.
>> Nay.
>> I'm sorry.
>> I I can't hear. I can't hear you.
>> Bill said nay.
>> Nay.
>> Okay. Um and Kim is going to abstain.
One, two, three.
>> Liz, did you vote?
>> And I'm a yes and I'm a yes. So, um,
the vote carries.
And I just want to say for the record, I
want to be consistent. I think it's
important to have two people. Um, you
know, and I think everyone's been on the
board. It it's, you know, so
>> I agree. I agree. Thank you.
>> Good luck. Yeah.
>> Okay. So, the motion passes. Uh, Kim,
congratulations.
>> Thank you
>> to you. Looks like the two of us are on
for next month.
Okay, moving on.
Old business, uh, the review of budget
to actuals.
So, I actually looked at this and I was
a little confused because the budget to
actual that we got was
last year's full year and I believe we
got that the previous month as well. Um,
so that's why I had sent the email to
Kate and asked her for our most recent
budget to actual from July through
current. So I don't know if anybody had
a chance to look at that or if anybody
has any comments.
>> Just the same thing you said that that's
the last year's
I have
>> last year's data. So, I think I think
there was some uh probably a
misunderstanding of what you were
looking for, what we're looking for.
>> So,
>> so I
>> Sorry,
>> I'm sorry. Go ahead. Go ahead, Eric.
>> So, I deliberately put last year's
complete year budget to actual in there
because we're actually far enough along.
I mean, we're not audited yet. We're
less than a month from starting the
audit and um
you know I thought you as a board would
want to know going into budget season
that it appears that the surplus on the
town side will be somewhere just under
$200,000
for last year. So we're in the black
which is good.
>> Can can
>> Okay.
>> I'm sorry. I I'm I'm just going to um
sorry I was late for a meeting. I was
driving home. Um but um I did express to
Mark while he was there that I will be
an extra official member of this board.
I non voting member but I can
participate.
This is extremely interesting to me. So
Eric, I'll ask you. So am I
understanding this because we have not
gotten this in our board of selectment
packet even though I've been asking. Are
are we see
>> you did ask for it and right after you
asked for it a couple days later I sent
it to the entire board.
>> Okay. Including you.
>> So So my email is is slow which I know
that are you sitting there is this
document showing that the school is
under budget by $300,000.
>> That is that does say that but that's
only with the information that they've
provided to us. So that's not something
I would be uh comfortable taking any
stand on.
>> So it's October 22nd and we don't have
final numbers
>> as far as I understand.
>> Okay.
All right. I mean, because what what
what this is showing me on um
just so where I'm looking, just so
everybody can sit there and look at it,
if you look right underneath the income
section, so on page three of 18,
that number right there. So you're
telling you're telling the board of
finance that 301,000 is not finalized
because the board of education
information that is pre given to the
treasur is not complete.
>> Far as I know that's an accurate
statement. Yes.
>> Okay.
>> All right. And then so so if the the
board of finance looks at this our
revenue
number was low as well. is that or was
was actually increase. We had an $84,000
increase in total revenues for the town.
That's right above that line. So, still
on page three, but right above that
line, total income. So, that's that's
the number.
>> Okay,
>> that is correct.
>> Okay. and and that is actually largely
due to the efforts of the tax collector
uh aggressively going out after people
to pay back taxes. Without that, we
would have actually been under budget.
>> Okay? And if we go all the way down to
the bottom,
you got 527,000
total
under budget for the entire community,
right?
>> Correct. Which would be roughly 226,000
on the town side. But in discussing this
with the treasurer, she thought that
there were some corrections that the
auditor would make because there are
some expenditures where there,
you know, legitimately could be booked
in either of two years. So her
suggestion to me was we assume we have
about $200,000,
a little less on the down side.
I mean, if I look at the expenditures
for the town, it's $141,000
under budget
>> with $84,000 being increased revenues.
>> Correct.
>> And then then whatever the remaining
balance is related to the school.
>> Okay.
>> That that is correct.
>> All right. And have you asked the
treasurer
um
>> when this is going to get finalized?
>> Uh it will get finalized after the
auditor
uh makes his final determinations.
>> Okay.
>> There are always some changes that come
with the audit. The auditor is planning
on being in I believe either the second
or third week of November to start.
>> Okay. And so the treasurer has a binder
of all all the information that the
treasurer provides to the auditor on
behalf of the town. Is that accurate?
>> That is correct.
>> Okay. So that information is available
if board members would like to
potentially review it.
>> You certainly could.
>> Okay. All right. That's it. Thank you
very much for that. That was extremely
helpful for me to understand the levels
of
where we're at.
Okay, sorry. You guys are
>> That's okay. Thank you for that. Um, and
welcome.
Um, yeah, that that's helpful to review
that. Um, we'll definitely have to work
with the treasurer and dig into that.
Um,
check register review of the check
register. Does anybody have any comments
about the check register?
And again, because the board of
selectman asked me, I gave it to you
also. You have the check register, you
know, essentially from the first day of
this fiscal year to current. So you can
see what all the expenses the town has
uh made.
I'm just scrolling through for myself.
Um I looked through it a little bit um
earlier.
I see some fund transfers um
on July 3rd. $500,000. Do you know what
that is, Eric?
>> Uh, if it's exactly $500,000, it's
almost always transfers to and from our
stiff account, um, which is the state's
short-term interestbearing account. We
try to keep as much money as possible in
that because that's currently earning
like 4.6%
interest, something like that. It's
under five now that the interest rates
are starting to come down nationally,
but it's still better than what we get
right now. We're getting I think
I think three from Mnt. So, we keep
three and a half million or so in stiff
and we just transfer money back in to
maintain a minimum balance with Mnt of
Okay.
>> 1 to two million.
>> Okay.
Can you remind me what the Taland County
bill is for 11,628?
I think we talked about this.
>> So if it's to Taland County, then uh
more than likely that is that sounds
about right for our bill to our annual
uh the they provide 911 services for us.
They're basically the regional dispatch
for all the fire departments and the
first line 911 provider.
Does anybody else have any
any questions?
All set.
>> All set here.
>> I'm all set, Liz. Thank you.
>> All right.
Moving on.
Um, donation requests. I don't know if
we have any updates on that.
That was something if memory serves,
Liz. Um, we had asked the treasurer to
get back to us on something and of
course now the treasures resigned.
>> So, I don't know where we are on that. I
>> I think we had heard from the treasurer
that, you know, there was not a good way
for us to take donations and to put it
into the funds that were requested.
>> But I think that ended up just there
wasn't an adequate way to handle that.
Um
>> I think um back
>> we have this issue where we have as far
as the order auditor is concerned too
many accounts already if observes that
was kind of the issue.
>> Question the auditor I think one more
time and then get back to us and she
might have reached out to him and she
just didn't get any respon I don't know.
>> Yeah
>> she has she pretty much knew what the
answer was.
>> Do you know anything? Yeah, she did
reach out to the auditor and she CCD me
on she gave him a whole series of
questions related to how the town moving
forward could take donations for various
different things, but I have not seen a
response come back from Sable yet.
>> Okay.
>> Um unless he emailed it to her directly,
but usually he CC's me on stuff like
that anyway.
>> Busy season for him, I'm sure.
Yeah. Okay. Um, try meeting tri board
meeting update.
Um, I guess the update is was that we
held the tri board meeting.
Um, the
>> most of us were there.
>> I'm going to say I'm very proud of the
board of finance. All, you know, current
members, you know, they all were there,
>> I think. Yeah, we were all there, right?
We were all there. We were all there.
various levels of illness and
absenteeism. Um
>> the other boards
>> I I will apologize for my board and for
um well I I don't have to apologize for
the board of education but for my board
I the um the attendance was not what it
should have been.
>> No, it wasn't.
>> But it was good. At least you were
there. um you know and I think we did
get some good information ultimately out
of that meeting.
>> Mhm.
>> I think so too and it is up uh the video
is up for um town people whoever wants
to watch it and find out what we
learned.
Does anybody else have any comments
about that?
>> Um
I was just gonna say Liz if I could. It
was a very informative meeting. I
thought that everyone spoke. You know, I
I think it's making strides. People came
prepared. You know, now that you all
will be in this new season of doing
things so much quicker than we have. You
know, it's unfortunate that it falls
this year, but we did it last year. So,
um yeah, we did what the charter asked
for. Everybody showed up. Everyone
talked about the needs of the town. And
I thought it was a good meeting overall.
I think so too. And and the schedule um
the schedule for this upcoming year
was discussed and put in place.
>> We had that one change, right? Because
we had a we were one day off, right?
>> Yep. Yep. Um
anybody have any other comments about
that?
Should we move on?
New business. Oh, it ties into the I'm
sorry. Go ahead, Rob.
>> No, no, no. I was going to say we should
see if Valerie can talk.
>> Um,
>> if we get audio out of her, it would be
helpful.
>> Well, when we get to 7B, that would be
good to check for sure.
>> Aren't we? Oh, we're not quite there
yet. Sorry.
>> Right. So, new business 7A is the
schedule for the budget process.
>> Oh, okay. My bad.
And
>> Eric, you got to all of us, right?
Say that again.
>> There was a there was a budget outline
forwarded to us, I believe. Right.
>> A lot of the work, but now he's happy to
let people
watching something.
>> Somebody is needs to mute the
>> responsible for everything. And that's
why you get an iPad helicopter.
>> Is it my fault I have a much bigger
reputation than he does?
>> It's not your fault. Is it my fault that
my name came first on the paper
alphabetically?
>> Scientist correct him?
>> Why are we listening to an ad?
>> Okay, Scott Persan, it's not you. Okay,
I'm trying to look at people that are
not
people that are
>> stopped now. We're good.
>> Seems to have stopped.
>> Not muted. That was
>> usually you'll get a green square on the
person where you're getting the audio
from.
because this has happened.
>> Yeah, this has happened to me before in
the background. I apologize. I don't
listen to anything that would be but
>> whatever. I just checked. I don't think
so. There we go.
>> Okay.
>> Um so,
uh Mark did email that to all of us um
before the tri board meeting and there
and it was also passed out at the
tribard meeting.
I guess my question is um should I go
through and read this? Um what do you
think? Um
>> my question uh Oh, sorry. Go on this. I
I thought you were done. Sorry.
>> Go ahead.
>> Oh, I was just going to say um I can't
recall if we as a board had formally set
our dates. Uh generally speaking, we do
that month in advance. I can't remember
when our last the last time we had done
that, you know, six months, you know,
looking looking forward six months into
the future. Um, if we are at a point
where we need to do that, then, you
know, I'm prepared to look at my
calendar and and figure stuff out. Um,
but it may not be something we have to
do at this at this moment if if the
schedule works for everybody that's
proposed. Um, I don't know if anybody
else has anybody has any other thoughts.
H
>> yeah. Well, it looks like um the first
the first thing that's going to happen
is the week of December 1st, the budget
worksheets sheets get distributed to uh
to the department heads and then the
next meeting would be January 5th. So
maybe it would be
>> We have one on the 17th, don't we?
>> 17th of what? I I mean on my calendar I
have a board of finance meeting on
December 17th.
>> Correct. We have a board of finance
meeting. I'm talking about specifically
with regard to the um
>> the worksheets being sent out
>> the important dates for the budget
itself.
>> Oh, sorry. I apologize. Yep. Okay.
>> That's okay. So, I'm thinking that um we
as a board as a a new board for who
whoever is elected in the November
meeting, maybe we would vote on these
dates.
>> Um
>> you'd probably take a little bit of
explanation to the new board, you know,
just how it's been done and the changes
that were made and you know, how it how
it works so we can
>> you're going to have at least a few new
members. So yeah, that makes a lot of
sense.
>> Two new members, right?
>> Yeah.
>> So the question is, do we agree that we
should wait on discussing and voting on
these dates with the new board or I mean
really how much are they going to
change? Probably not much.
>> I don't think they would change.
>> I mean the charter it's so tight there's
very little we can really realistically
do. But that said, if you get a new
board composition like say I don't get
reelected, right? A lot of times our
meetings were on Wednesdays because that
what everybody it worked for everybody
and it's particularly good for me. But
say you get a new board composition and
like Thursdays work better. So I think
yeah I think you kick this till the
first meeting after the election.
>> Agreed.
>> I would agree with that.
>> So I'm going to make a motion that we
discuss the um the budget schedule for
the fiscal year 2026 2027
that we table this until the November
meeting when we have a new board.
>> Liz, just as a as a point of uh
procedure,
if you're not going to do anything, it's
you don't need to make a motion. Just
let it lie.
>> Okay?
>> You know, it's better to not make a
negative motion. you you generally just
want to say, "Okay, we won't take action
on this unless somebody wants to take a
motion to do positive action and then
it'll automatically you can just you can
just ask Eric to put it or
>> pay to whoever to put it on the agenda
for next year."
>> Right. Just we just push it onto the
next agenda, right?
>> Yeah. Just say we'll table it and you
know if somebody doesn't feel strongly
otherwise, they can say, "Oh, I want to
vote on it now." And make a motion and
you can recognize that motion. But other
than that, it's probably just simpler
and smoother to ignore it and not take a
not take any kind of action on a
negative motion.
>> Okay. And then we'll just deal with it
again as old business next month.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah. It should be old business for our
next meeting, right?
>> Thank you, Mark, for your help. just as
part of the conversation to um you know,
Liz, I'm emailing you a an email from
the uh town clerk about the board of
finance meetings for the next calendar
year. So, that'll be need to be
something that'll need to be addressed
also at the next meeting, I think, and
then you should send that to her um she
wants it before December 1st. I think
she doesn't technically need it. She
says she does in there, but I think it's
a little it's a little confusing the way
the the statutes are. Uh, but you may as
well make a decision at the next board
meeting and send it on to her. So,
>> okay.
>> Separate separate issue. Sorry to bog it
down, but just thought I'd give you that
context.
>> Okay.
>> Wait for
>> um Okay. Um, moving on to 7B, status of
the bathroom renovation project.
Valerie, are you
>> Can you hear me?
>> Yes.
>> Oh, yes.
>> I had to switch. had to switch to my
phone. Sorry,
there's not good there's not good
internet here. Um, so I I'm sorry that
you know I I wasn't able to um do the
public speak at the beginning, but so if
this is the I see this is the section
for AES. Um, so the first thing I I
would ask moving forward now that you
guys are going to have new members and
and a new chair too is um if there's
anything that is on the agenda that
pertains to the school, if somebody
could please just let us know so that we
make sure that we have somebody on to
answer questions um that would be
wonderful. Um at our board meeting we
did talk about the um fact that the
status for the bathrooms right now is
that we are waiting for um a proposal
with money uh in it from um Fen O'Neal
and so the the board itself has said
already that moving forward the next
step is we get that from them we have a
subcommittee meeting we go to CIP and
then bring that back to the board of
finance. So, there hasn't been any
change from the last time, from the last
meeting. Um, and we will be sure to
bring that to you guys moving forward. I
do want to say since we're talking about
money here, though, that um again, the
the thing that was just brought up by
Eric about the unodudited
um amount for AES, um that number has
not uh that's the first time I'm hearing
that number. By the way, our end of the
year number um doesn't show 300,000. Uh
so I think we do need to wait for the
auditor to to do something because um
that's not the number that we have. That
is not um anywhere close to that. So I
do just caution for us to make sure that
when we present things um we're
presenting them as as factual as we can.
Um, and then the last thing with this
status, and then I'll give you guys to
the rest of your meeting since this is
the only spot that AES is, is that there
have been a lot of questions asked by
the board of finance um, about things
like preschool and they're not being
asked of the school, they're being asked
of the state um, and then the state
comes back to us and says, why are they
asking these? So, um I would just please
ask this board that if there are
questions on the bathroom that you ask
us, if there are questions on preschool
that you ask us or come to a meeting, um
I will answer any and all questions as
most of you know. Um I just I'm just
asking moving forward for the
professionalism that these come through
the school. So, thank you. If you have
any questions, let me know.
>> Thank you, Val. I just want to chime in
there and just say something like the
idea of going to the state department of
education
because
you have a beef with the Andover board
of ed or as completely out of line and
should not be done.
>> Why Why is the assumption that it's a
beef?
I mean, I don't know if that's
appropriate,
>> okay,
>> to assume it's a beef to ask a question.
>> Well, I think the question has been
asked and it's been answered by people
in town and when you get an answer and
it's not acceptable to you and then you
go to the state,
then it's beef.
>> Valerie, I think I'll ask a question.
How many out of town students are in the
prek program right now? We've said that
all along. There are eight students
right now that are out oftowners that
are not part of the AES family. We've
answered this. It's on there every
month. I don't understand why we
continue to keep asking this question.
>> I asked that question at the board of
education meeting. I ain't got an
answer.
>> It's been on We've said it all along.
>> Okay.
>> And I also, by the way, do 411s for
parents and they get them every Friday.
So that is a subject that's being
addressed as well. So it it just the and
it is a beef because there is a person
on that board that is upset that there's
an outoftowner that's not being taken.
And so it is a beef and so I am upset
because I have always I have tried Mr.
Magcguire, you know this Jeff, I've
tried for six years to answer every
question. I do it at every meeting and I
do it I I I ask people if you have a
question please call me. And so it's
embarrassing for the town, for the state
department of education to get calls
like that when they're like, "Why didn't
you just ask the superintendent?" And so
the answer of I don't like the answer is
not an answer. So thank you, Robert, for
saying what you did. I'll leave you guys
to your meeting. I just needed to make
sure that we we spoke about that because
as Jeff mentioned at the tri board
meeting, there's chaos that that's going
on and and there shouldn't be. There
just shouldn't be. And this shouldn't be
one area. I I've answered all questions
always. I'm an open book when it comes
to that and so I just would like that
respect. If somebody has a question,
please bring it to me and I'm more than
happy to answer it. We're all I don't
have an answer.
>> Before you leave, Val, I was just going
to make a statement too and I don't know
if you can see with the way you are. Um,
I agree. And now that I'm going to be a
departing member, I think going forward,
I know that as a board, we always tried
to ask Eric if there was a town issue.
And there was an email today that I did
say something of this that I was copied
on. Um, seeing that the state board of
education was contacted. Um, I have no
problem with anybody wanting any kind of
information. And I've certainly sent a
lot of emails through my four years and
probably four years of attending
meetings while I was preparing to be on
the board of ed. I mean be on the board
of finance before I actually got on. I
mean some people readily do get back to
me and some people I've still not gotten
a reply from you know in all the eight
years that I've been sending emails. But
I just think it's respectful and I'll be
watching from afar because of course I
care about Andover. Of course I want the
best. Um, yeah.
>> You know, just because I didn't get a
nomination this time that I thought was
coming my way, that's okay. You know, it
didn't happen. So, I think it's
respectful if we do just operate. You
know, if we have a question about the
town, that would be Eric or the new town
manager, administrator, whatever, you
know, the board of selectmen decides.
And then I think if there is something
about the school, maybe go that way
first. But I'm all for if you don't get
a reply, definitely go up the chain. I
mean, then you should then I think if
you don't get a reply to that instead of
reaching out, you know, to someone's
boss first or something. I don't know.
That's just my two cents.
>> Thank you.
>> You're welcome.
>> So, I I will speak to this issue because
this is this was not a beef. This was my
request. Last year I submitted a
request. There are reports that you can
request
by the state which they easily easily
provide
um about public information. And last
year I had requested a report about the
makeup of the preschool for out of town
children since the program had been
expanded.
And the information that I got back was
very different than the information that
was provided to me from the board of ed.
So my understanding right now is that
the numbers haven't been reported yet
which is why they couldn't return the
report.
>> I'm sorry. By by whom? By by me or by
the state, Liz?
>> The state. The state.
>> Okay. It's just it's a state report that
any any um taxpayer can request and last
year the number that I received on my
report was much higher than any answer
that I got from your office
>> since you brought it up.
>> So just remember a couple of things. The
state when you use the term report
absolutely it is exactly that. It's a
report. It's a report that's not in the
8 o'clock PM on a Wednesday night
report. So right now it's very possible
that you can ask for a report on
something and the number may be one off
from ours. So I would just appreciate
moving forward if you just ask us. Um I
mean
>> I did ask you this last year and the
number was the answer
>> and I gave it nine off. It was like nine
off.
No,
>> it's not nine off.
>> All right, I'll send you the report and
we can talk about it.
>> Sure.
>> This is okay. This is healthy to have I
don't think I think that people get
upset. I'm saying I would rather people
speak face to face and be able to have a
little bit rebuttal. I think that some
people in the past
um like if I questioned Eric on
something would definitely think that
I've lost respect for Eric. I think it's
healthy to have questions or and anybody
can have their opinion, but I'm allowed
to speak for myself. So, like rolling
eyes and all of those things don't
really matter to me because I'm always
going to stand behind my truth. So, I
just think it's important to Thank you.
I I like to hear both sides of this.
Liz, you're saying why you looked for it
because you questioned it and then Val
is here to at least answer to you that
she thought it was oneoff. We're not
magicians and no. So, thank you. I mean,
thank you for saying why you did what
you did, and I think that's good for us
to understand as a I will be a a citizen
and a taxpayer after this meeting. So, I
appreciate any work that people put in.
I know I put a lot of work in. I'm just
saying we should be allowed to ask our
leaders and then get an answer back and
not have people be upset. It's okay to
ask questions. That's why we're elected
to boards or why you will all be on
boards. Okay. Thank you.
I'd like to have comment
>> Louise. Go ahead, Louis.
>> Um, I actually think it's a very good
thing to to do your due diligence and if
you don't know answers and you don't
know the whole process is to look not
just at one source but at different
sources. So, you know, I commend Liz for
doing that and um trying to get the
answers straight are a different issue,
but people should not be downed for not
for um or think bad upon for looking
elsewhere for information. I do that all
the time on the internet for certain
things and there's nothing wrong with
it.
>> Lu, do you think that Valerie is lying?
>> Is that what you're Because this is this
is the core of it.
Okay. And this is why I think that
there's some upset. Do you think she's
lying?
You're asking your school superintendent
a question, you get an answer, you don't
like it,
>> and you go to the state.
>> So, um, in previous years, our preschool
program was
45ish,
45 and and lower. the preschool program
was expanded and now we have over 60. So
to
>> to say that there was eight preschool
children or maybe there is only eight
eight out oftowners this year. Um last
year the report reported 19 out of town
children and the out of town children
should include
teachers children who do not live in
town. So I will send you the report
and
you can dispute it.
>> I think there's two things going on
here. One is that's not on the agenda is
the preschool
>> I know it's a it's not on the agenda.
>> Um so I I mean going on and I don't
think the board of finance has preview
over the preschool program. Do we?
>> So discussing it right now is kind of
out of balance.
>> Bill it's it was brought up. So, I'm
just responding to it.
>> Bill, thank you. And before I go, I will
just say that I have offered every
single member of the board of selectmen,
the board of finance, and anyone in town
for this six years that I've been here
to join what was called the school
readiness council. It is now called
Early Start, and it is the council that
oversees preschool. I don't understand
the infatuation, the attack on preschool
by a couple of members of this board. I
I don't but I have invited every single
elected member to serve on that board.
And so for whatever reason everybody is
very concerned with a program that's not
even in the general fund as a line item,
please by all means join that early
start council. It is imperative that we
get people involved in that program
anyways moving forward since it's new.
So, I would love to have Kim or Liz or
anybody join the early start, go to
those meetings, learn everything there
is to know about it. I would be thrilled
to have a member on there. So, thank
you.
>> When do they meet though?
>> Um, I can get the schedule and forward
it to you. Early start um has changed as
of July 1st. So, it's not school
readiness, it's early start. And that
collaborative now is between us, Hebrin,
and Lebanon. And so we are one full
council. We have a parent ambassador who
we've just named. Um and in the state,
our fiduciary is Eastcon.
So all of our records are not just
checked by us and our auditor and our
finance person, Terry. We have a council
and we had a council before that too, a
school readiness council. Um and so I I
think that's why I'm always floored. Why
is it that people are so concerned? But
please, you know, again, anybody can
call me. Thank you for those of you who
are saying yes, please call and ask the
information. But it is accurate
information that I'm giving you. Um, and
this has just become a trend. The same
thing was true with the bathrooms. When
they didn't like the answer that I have
no new news, they were calling Fuss and
O'Neal. They were contacting our
contractor. And and that's just not the
way we should be doing business. It's
embarrassing. So, moving forward, please
>> ask any questions and I'll answer them.
Thank you.
>> Does anybody else have any more comments
about the bathroom renovation pro uh
project or any questions? The only thing
I would bring up is that this came out
of a conversation that Val and I had um
offline
um that my understanding is the delay is
in part because Fussen O'Neal had
requested more information regarding
hazmat/esmestus
in the building you know uh that sort of
thing. And that's the sort of thing that
I mean, look, this is a little bit
outside of my Bailey Wick, but I handle
environmental claims for travelers. And
one of the things that I know in a given
project, when you have something like
that, that can kick a project back
because they're just they have to check
that box. They have to say whether
there's a speestous in the building or
not, and so on and so forth. And so that
can that can delay things. And that made
a lot of sense to me even though it's
frustrating. Uh, so just FYI, I think
that might be part of the reason for the
delay.
>> And you know that because you had an
offline conversation with Valerie.
>> That's correct because I asked her about
it.
>> Okay. And so when Valerie announced the
contractors for the project
and there's no dollars associated with
that, that's okay.
>> I didn't say that. I said the reason
that I understood that Fusset O'Neal's
project plan or whatever what have you
is not ready yet is that that's all I
said Jeff.
>> Okay. So I what I would like what I
would ask and I would I've asked Valerie
and this has been asked multiple emails
and haven't gotten it. Valerie there's
two distinct parts for this this
project. One is an RFP,
which is what you worked with with your
group for the plan to sit there and do
the RFP. And then there's the design.
And so there's the design documents that
you also worked with the the group, the
working group to do this. Can you
provide to either the board of f both
the board of finance and to the board of
selectman the RFP package in a PDF form?
>> No.
Why not?
>> And and this is on the agenda every
month as you know because you were at
our last meeting. This is something that
you should be discussing with the board
of education.
>> The two issues here wait. The two issues
here are the town and we had this with
Eric with two other projects that were
discussed a couple of months ago. The
RFP process for the town and the RFP
process for the school. Two separate
things. And the way the board of
education opted to vote to go on this
project is just a way that you didn't
like. And so that issue Wait, can I
finish please? Can I finish please?
>> That issue is like a family argument.
That issue is something that the board
of selectmen, the board of education
have to get together and discuss. What
is the expectation moving forward for
how an RFP process is going to occur?
Let's look at the charter. Let's look at
the board policies. Let's discuss that.
But that right there, Jeff, has nothing
to do actually with the company fussing
O'Neal. They don't care if we're
infighting over what process was or
wasn't used. They care about the project
and they take their orders from the
board of education. And so whether or
not they you you liked the process or
you agreed with the process has to be
taken up with the board of ed at a board
of ed meeting and not well let's go ask
fuss and O'Neal. They don't care about
that.
>> Fuss and O'Neal and I have not
communicated with Fuss and O'Neal. I am
asking you really a simple thing to
share information so that we can all be
>> sharing the information that we have to
share with you. But please don't say it.
They think you called them. I did
correct them and tell them it wasn't you
because Scott Persan called them. Kim
Persan, there are people that have
called and so and I know it wasn't you.
I had
>> I give them if they want to call, I give
them all the permission to call.
Everybody
are all volunteers. Anyone on these
boards that wants information should be
able to get information. They don't have
a contract with you.
>> I am asking a very simple request. This
is why when you sit there and say you
share all of this information, please
>> I just said I have nothing to share with
you.
>> So, so you're telling this board, you're
telling this board of finance that that
we are into a contract with with FOs and
O'Neal and if you look at the Fen O'Neal
numbers that we've almost paid them
almost, they're in complete contract.
We're in phase four of their contract
and we can't even get a document that
says how you are going what you are
asking to people to bid on. You can't
share that with the rest of the town. Is
that
>> first of all the contract that to which
you're referring is that prephase
process for the bathroom. It is the the
stuff that occurs prior to demolition.
To Robert's point, as he just mentioned,
it was the hazmat. It was the
pre-planning. It was prior to that is
the contract that we are currently in
with them right now. We are not
currently in a demolition contract with
them now. We are in those starting
phases, the one that was approved by the
board of education and the board of
finance. That is the contract that we
are currently in. And again, I don't
want to hijack this meeting. So, I'm
going to refrain from going forward.
However, the question was, is there any
new news to report right now? There is
not at our board meeting. Hopefully, we
will have that. I am not withholding any
documents that have not been presented
to the board already. That is a fact.
Thank you.
>> Have you
>> Okay. And wait, wait, wait, one last
thing for the entire board of finance.
The most recent bill from Fussen O'Neal,
the most recent bill, the Fuss and
O'Neal charged the the board of
education in four phases and actually
the town in four phases. We are into
phase four which is a construction phase
and I have told Eric that we are
>> no construction has begun.
>> I understand Valerie I am talking about
the billing from your engineering firm.
That's what I'm communicating to this
board.
>> Construction is a is a phase of the
construction documents. Valerie is what
he's saying. construction. There's
phases of a construction of a docu when
you have a contract to develop these
>> these forms or these documents. Phase
four is construction. It's not the
actual physical construction. It's
called construction as a phase of the
documents that we're written.
>> We have not signed anything for a
construction phase. We have the
documents that you guys received, Bill,
at the very beginning for um this
project for us hiring them to oversee.
That is the only document that we have
signed. So, I will ask Terry to go back
through the business office and I will
look at all of the actual bills that
have come in that she's forwarded over
to you guys to see what language Jeff is
referring to. But there have been no
other documents signed. there's been no
other contract uh further than what we
had at the beginning that we have um
engaged in with them. So,
>> so, so just so everybody on this board
understands, the most recent bill in
this total contract with Fuss and O'Neal
is somewhere in the range of $47,000.
>> The original contract that we brought
before the board of finance was that
range. Yes.
>> Yep. $47,000.
And it went through three phases. And
this is the first bill I've seen. So,
please understand this came through an
email and I'm like, we're on phase phase
one was X. Phase two was was another
thing. Phase three was bidding and RFP
process. Phase four is now into
construction. And they're in charging us
for construction. So, we've paid Fen
O'Neal somewhere in the range of $40,000
to date
>> for construction documents,
>> for everything, for the whole process,
right?
>> The whole thing.
And the fourth phase is construction
documents. That's what they call those.
>> So there's the bidding phase, there's
the pre bid phase,
>> you know, strategic.
>> It doesn't necessarily mean that they're
sticking a shovel in the ground.
>> Not that
Hang on. Hang on. The the fourth phase
was construction administration
and included on-site meetings with the
contractor to review documents on site.
So that can't occur unless you've
already picked a contractor.
>> We have not met we have not met these
contractors yet. So, I I think the
problem here is what Jeff Magcguire just
said, which is, "Hey, I received an
email with a copy of a bill that came to
the town. If there's a question that did
not come from us, if you had a question,
I would have thought that maybe you
would have called our office and said,
"Hey, somebody sent this to me and I
have a question about it."
>> That would have been the way I would
have hoped moving forward that it goes
because I don't know what you're
referring to. Just I just don't
understand, Valerie, why you cannot
share documentation with interested
parties within this town who want to
make sure that we get the best outcome.
>> I think we want the best outcome as
well. So, why don't you bring this up at
our board meeting? It'll be on the
agenda and you can discuss it with the
whole board of ed because the last to
insinuate that we don't want the best
outcome is not fair. No, but I can't
determine what the best outcome is
unless you share the documents.
>> There are no new documents for the old
documents.
>> The documents are all there.
>> Whatever.
>> They're all there.
>> All where all
>> at every meeting they've discussed them.
>> So,
>> Bill, have you ever seen the full RFP?
You're on the committee. Wait, now
you're asking two separate questions
because now you're going back to the
issue of we wanted this done the way an
RFP is done. You're now merging two
concepts again.
>> You're saying this is what we wanted. We
want to and and we've already discussed
the fact that the board of education
went a slightly different route than the
traditional RFP. So again, we are taking
up time at their very valuable meeting.
Please, by all means, I know I'll see
you at the board of education meeting uh
two Wednesdays. Let's talk about it
then. Thank you.
>> I have a question. I have a question,
Valerie. Um so, you went a different
direction with the RFP. So, are you
saying Boston O'Neal didn't do the RFP?
>> I'm I I'm don't have these documents in
front of me right now because I'm not in
my office.
>> So, I You're the superintendent,
Valerie. You're the superintendent.
>> We Yes. And we have already explained to
Mr. Magguire and at our meeting that we
did follow suit with going with having
the oversight of the choice of the
contractors going through the guidance
of Fuss and O'Neal. The uh Jeff Murray
had said that even at that meeting the
only thing that he had asked was that in
case there was somebody who wanted to be
considered with an RFP that they could
go and contact Fuss and O'Neal. Though
we gave Eric that opportunity to post
it. I've produced that for all of you
already via an email. You already
received it. The town did not post that.
And then Jeff Maguire had a question
about whether or not we followed an RFP
process the way he wanted it done.
Caitlyn Greenhouse, the chair, did have
a conversation with Jeff saying RFP
processes for the school have never gone
through the town. And she has the
receipts to show him. All of the
projects for the school previous to Val
Bruno have all gone through the
superintendent's office and the board of
education and subcommittee. They have
never, and Carol can tell you this as
well, never gone through the town. They
have gone through the school
historically always. The board of
education decided that process just like
this time. So Jeff kept asking we want
an RFP to go through the town. We want
sealed bids to go through the town. That
>> or Jeff Magcguire
>> you
>> me.
>> Okay.
>> You kept saying where are these sealed
bids? We want to see them. That's what
you said.
>> I Okay. And so understand this process
has always gone through the school. Like
I said, prior to me, the board of
education this time after Eric at the
board uh I think it was board of finance
meeting, it might have been board
selectman meeting had talked about one
of your projects going through NACOG and
not going the route of a traditional
RFP.
At our meeting, we had two board members
say, "Okay, so what's going to happen if
we get these sealed bids? Do we even
know what to do with them? You can go
back." Because this was spoken about at
a meeting, at a board of ed meeting, and
there's going to be no um first I mean
um a public works person to put in their
two cents. They have no licensed
electricians. They have no licensed
plumbers. We're going to be out a town
administrator soon. And so they said,
"What do we do?" Well, let's go to the
experts, which we hired, Fuss and
O'Neal, and have them guide us through
the project from here moving forward.
So, again, you want to hear all of this.
You want to see the documents, they'll
do them at the board of education. But
the board of education voted on which
way to go with this, and it was
discussed at the subcommittee meeting.
And so, Fuss and O'Neal as our experts
that we've hired. We had three choices.
We chose Fuss and O'Neal for a reason.
And we are listening to their guidance
on our project. And so there is nothing
that's being withheld. There are no
secret RFPs. There are no secret sealed
bids.
So
>> show us the RFP and the construction
documents.
>> If we could, we don't have all of the
construction documents yet. We are still
in that phase. So anybody who sent
>> Why do you have a contractor?
>> We have a suggested list from Fuss and
O'Neal. I read it at that meeting. We
have not met them yet. These are the
people that they said based on this,
this, and this would be the best people
to work on our project. And we've said
that's where we are
>> for this little renovation.
>> That's so little. Did you say little?
>> For F and O'Neal, it's little for us.
For F and O'Neal, it's little. So, I do
feel again attacked here.
>> Okay.
>> There are there are issues that need to
be addressed. I just asked I just asked
an RFP is not a single line to state
that this RFP is
>> that is correct.
>> There is a document that that the
committee which Bill de Rogers and Jeff
Murray are members of and all I'm asking
is to see the document. That's it.
That's all I've ever asked you for.
>> And and when you come to our meeting and
the whole board is there to discuss it,
not just Val Bruno, they will reiterate
what I have said to you. The route that
was chosen
originally with the three choices and
then Fuss and O'Neal and and using their
guidance to guide us through has been
explained.
>> Okay?
>> So whether you like that answer or not,
I'm sorry, Jeff. I really am. I'm not
trying to not give you an answer. But
once again, I feel like, you know, we're
at this meeting and now, you know,
you're attacking this. The question of
the night was, do you have any news to
tell us as an update? And I said, no. So
having these attacks now, yeah, that's
personal.
>> Don't take them as attacks. They are
request.
>> I answered the question three times.
There's never provided us any
information.
There's no new documents to give you. I
told
>> I want the original documents.
>> Come to the meeting and at the meeting
you can speak to the whole board.
>> Last meeting and I asked the same
question and I was not provided the
information.
>> Caitlyn told you there were no new
documents. This is what you asked for.
You asked specifically. Your issue is
with the RFP process. Your issue is with
the RFP process.
>> All right.
>> And that is a separate conversation.
you're not happy with the process that
the board of education selected and I
know that you've you've shared that
you're not happy with that process.
>> Okay.
When are the subcommittee meetings?
>> The next one once um Fawson O'Neal
notifies us that they have something to
give us. Caitlyn already said that's
when the next meeting will occur. And
that and as for the time frame, we are
hoping that that will happen by the
second week of November. That's that's
what we're hoping. Can I ask maybe a
simpler question? Is that can you just
share with us the proposed construction
documents? Like what did Fuss and O'Neal
develop for a work plan? What was their
extent of work? And can you forward that
to the board? Because I think that would
answer the majority of their questions.
and then you can discuss how you pick a
contractor later. But at least the board
could understand what the scope of work
is.
>> Again, I I will and and the board of
education did have that. So, I will
discuss this with the board and make
sure that that request is heard that
you'd like to see the documents from the
beginning, what it was we asked for with
the bathroom in the first place. But
again, yeah, you know, I I do feel like
this attack I understand that the issue
is that Jeff has decided that he does
not like the way the board of education
and I did this and that's fine to not
like the way this was done. But that is
a separate issue and that was what I'm
upset about in terms of them calling and
they didn't even call the right office
but them deciding to call Fuss and
O'Neal and saying they're they're not
going to give it to somebody who does
not have a contract with them and it
makes us look
you know as a town not good. um it just
doesn't
if if we're telling you again back to
what Robert said, if we're telling you
we don't have those documents and then
you're calling saying like we don't
believe them that they don't have these
documents, that's awful. Do you not
believe what my chairperson said,
Caitlyn? Do you not believe what I said?
There's no documents being withheld.
That just simply is not true.
So again, I apologize to the rest of the
board for this becoming the majority of
your meeting. It is your meeting. Um but
again, you know, it we've said hopefully
in another week or two we'll have more
answers. We don't have them right now.
So, we've paid FA and O'Neal 40
something,000
and we do not have a set of construction
documents to look at. Is that what
you're telling us?
>> No, I'm telling you that there were
plans that were stamped and actually
Bill should have them that were sent
that were sent to Bill that were sent to
Jeff Murray that were sent to Eric
Sanderson because he was on there at the
beginning and that were sent to all the
board members. They are there.
So,
>> can you send them to us?
>> You can't send them to us
>> right the second. No, Liz. No. Right
this second. No. Now, here's
>> I don't expect you to do it right this
second.
>> Here's the thing. Here's the other
thing. We talked about what the
procedure is going to be moving forward.
And that was the conversation that that
I did have um when I happened to uh get
a question from Robert. And I have said
it right at the beginning here tonight.
Once we
know what the documents are, we get the
documents uh in early November, we have
a subcommittee meeting. Right after
that, it will go to CIP, which is
representative that that board is
representative of the board of finance,
the board of selectmen, the board of ed,
and the town. After we go to CIP, we
will come to the board of finance. And
by then, all of the answers should be
there. But it is difficult for me as
we're moving forward with any project if
it's not someone's lane right then and
there. No, we don't usually send it off
to three boards. Um we usually handle it
in a certain manner. Um everybody's
welcome to come to our meeting though if
you come to our meeting and I know you
do Liz sometimes. I think most of the
time those documents at our meeting when
they're discussed they're then there and
available. So
>> they're there, but they're not available
for people on Zoom.
>> You guys pass around stuff, we can't see
what you have other than what's in the
packet.
>> So
just just sorry and and I get you I get
you, Liz. One question, Valerie, and and
I just got to ask. So, you're saying
that the members of the committee, Bill
D Rogers and Jeff Murray, have seen
received or just let me finish
stamped construction plans.
>> Um, I'm not looking at them right now,
so I don't ask you. I don't know what
the title I don't know what the title on
the front of the documents would would
be, but I know we reviewed them because
as a matter of fact, um Jeff Murray's
comments when he looked at them um we
had a fullon conversation about the
choice um did we want to keep the choice
of urinal? um about the the tile that we
were looking at potentially um
as as a point of interest for a
bathroom. I mean, we looked at plans
where
we could then brainstorm whether or not
this was what we were looking for in
terms of replacement of sinks and
toilets. So, those plans, I'm not
looking at them, so I don't know what
the front page said. They were stamped
those documents. Yes, Jeff Murray has
>> has.
>> Correct. They were emailed.
>> Okay.
>> And that was in July.
All right.
>> Bill, you have those. Bill, you have
those as well?
>> I do not have those. Um I think there
was a
>> they were in that email over the summer,
but I can send them again.
>> Yeah, there was a mix of the emails. I
didn't get the original invitation.
We're not sure what happened there. Um,
so no, I I don't have those in my
possession right now, but Valent,
>> there was clearly a snafu because they
wanted you on that committee and then
like you didn't get the email or
something like that. It was weird.
>> I'm not sure. I was I was on vacation
beginning of the month and I was also
placing my mother in a
>> facility for memory care at the
beginning of the month and
>> it was a bad time. So it could be on me.
I don't remember getting the invitation.
I don't remember getting the documents.
I discussed this with Valerie already
and we're we're all good. But I I had a
bad July, so I may have missed it.
>> I'm sorry to hear that, Bill.
>> Yeah.
>> Really?
>> And I felt and I felt bad because I I
did forward it again to Bill and say,
"Look, I I promise I didn't forget you."
And he said, "I'm so sorry, Valerie.
He's I I had a tough July." And I said,
"No harm, no foul." But I did want him
to see that I had sent them. And so I
will resend the um stamped document. Um,
but it it would have been attached to
one of those bad time uh emails. So, I
will send that to him again. But Jeff
Murray absolutely got them because he
responded to me and said, "Did you make
sure to send them to Eric Sanderson?"
Because Eric wasn't at that meeting. And
so, yes, I said I responded to him and
said yes. And he even said, "We want to
make sure that Eric Sanderson has an
opportunity to look at them, which Eric
Sanderson did look at them um and offer
a couple of suggestions." So, so the
there was a a lot a lot that went in
this and and
>> it sounds like there may be some
communication issues even within the
board of selectment.
>> Yes, thank you.
And all I'm going to add since I'm
listening as you know I do go to a lot
of meetings and some of the points that
were brought up I have heard I don't
pretend to know about construction and
documents that's why I'd ask questions
but I understood when we approved the
fuss and O'Neal situation what it was
going to be and I know that was talked
about at you know they were going to
oversee the planning or whatever I don't
even want to speak to it I've just been
listening but multiple meetings meetings
that I have been at, it's been discussed
even at board of selectman meetings that
I listen to. So, I appreciate no one
else is going to feel the way I do. I
appreciate honest dialogue whether it's
painful to hear or not. I like people
being able to defend themselves. So,
maybe Val has heard it and heard it and
heard it. And this is the first time
that I've seen her kind of answer back
to you. And I think that's a good thing
because I hear a lot going the other
way. You know, I hope moving forward for
the town, the way I'm going to end this
is I'm sad that we're going to be losing
Eric. I mean, I've questioned him a lot
over the years, but I've respected
everything he's done. He may not feel
the same way. He may not like people
that question things. I love open
communication. So, I just hope that we
do hire a town manager, administrator
that is okay with doing that and will go
across the parking lot if if they have
questions of Val. I want to see the town
work together. It's so hard to watch
this, but it's but it's good. Thank you
for this conversation tonight and
everybody contributing to it.
But I have heard a lot of this stuff in
meetings. Maybe some of you have
forgotten it and I'm not pointing at
anybody, but I have heard a lot of this
stuff discussed before.
That's all.
Thank you, Liz. Does anybody else have
any more questions or comments about
this topic?
>> I do, Liz.
>> Okay. Um, I just wanted to say, Valerie,
that I never contacted Fussen O'Neal,
nor did I ever email them.
Um, it's my understanding from the
history of this project that we approved
$48,000
to start an engineering project with
Fussen O'Neal in a wing of the school
for a bathroom.
Um, it seems like there is not an RFP
that was created for the project.
I looked through the board of education
policies on construction, etc. etc. And
it seems like those policies within AES
were not followed. Um, and it seems like
the town policies that people have spent
years creating on a type of project like
this were not followed. The last thing
I'm going to say is that this project
seemed like a wonderful plan for all
three boards to get together and work
together and that didn't happen. and it
makes me sad.
This would have been a great thing for
all of us to work together on. Thank
you.
Thank you, Kim.
Anyone else?
Um, okay.
Hearing nothing further, um we will move
on to the approval of the meeting
minutes from September 24th, 2025.
>> I make a motion to accept the minutes as
submitted.
>> I'll second.
Any discussion?
>> It's good to me.
Okay, this is I'm just writing down the
number so I can make sure that I write
this down right. Um,
this would be seven no 8 8a.
Okay. Um, the motion is to accept the
meeting minutes uh from September 24th,
2025. All in favor? Hi.
>> Hi.
>> Liz, can I make a suggestion is that you
just do a roll call.
>> Um, and the reason is if you do a roll
call, the way this recording is stored,
then each person individually will make
a sound and their face will show up on
the recording and it's easy for the
secretary to uh to be able to transcribe
later.
>> Yes. Okay. Um, so, uh, Kim,
>> I
>> Yes, I Yes. Uh,
>> Louise,
>> I stayain. I wasn't there.
>> Oh, okay. Uh, Joanne,
>> hi.
>> Uh, Mark,
>> Bill,
>> hi.
and Rob
>> I
>> and me I say yes.
So, one, two, three. That's six yeses
and one.
>> Louise abstained.
>> 610.
>> Okay. Moving on to board open
discussion.
Do we have anything
more to talk about? Anybody?
Go ahead, Luis. I just want to thank
Eric for his service
for these last six years. We're going to
miss you and you've done very well for
the town and I hope you're the person
who replaces you are is half as good as
you and good luck in where you're going.
>> Concur. I've already told Eric this but
I feel the same way. Yep. You're here to
this town and uh we're gonna miss you,
man.
>> Yeah. Thank you very much, Eric.
>> Yeah. Good luck.
>> Good luck, Eric.
>> Thanks.
>> Going to be a hard year.
>> Be a hard year.
>> Keep in touch.
>> Yep.
>> Or run run run run.
>> Live your life so when you resign
everyone's sad.
Anything else?
>> Just wishing the board of finance much
luck in the year to come. You know, it's
it's it's going to be a tough year just
all the changes, all of the things. So,
yeah, good luck with everything. I'll be
>> that back. Thanks for your service,
Joanne, as well.
>> Yeah. Thank you.
>> Thank you. Been my pleasure.
>> You dug in. You dug in. You actually did
the work and I app
>> Absolutely.
>> I never missed a meeting. I have to say
I'm very
>> not one.
>> Not one in four years. Not one.
>> Wow. That's impressive.
>> I can't even match that. That's I mean
one or two because
when I'm Yeah. So
>> that's impressive.
>> Hopefully I I mean my family will be.
It'll be like oh you're
>> Yeah. Your husband will be happy.
>> Not like on a phone call. You're not
researching. Yeah. No, thank you. And
Mark, thank you for all the the wisdom
and experience. Of course. It took a
good year to just kind of learn too. I
fell.
>> Yeah.
>> But I had watched
>> honestly Mark did a phenomenal job from
the from the jump as as chair just
running the meetings. U just had a knack
for it. It was very good.
>> Very good.
>> Yeah. You have to have that good
personality. Nice and calm.
>> Very fair and and even levelheaded.
>> Absolutely.
>> It's good to have an even keel like
>> most of the time.
>> Yeah. Well, when you're not in Germany
on at 2 am.
>> Yeah.
I I I guess you didn't want to do that
anymore.
>> Prefer not to.
>> Well, good luck.
>> Maybe maybe we'll see you around, man.
>> I'm not going anywhere.
>> All right, guys.
>> Appreciate it.
>> All right. So, do we uh are we at the
point where we uh motion?
>> No corresponding public speak again.
>> We are at correspondence. Any
correspondence to share?
>> Um I I didn't send it around to the
board. I uh Liz, I just forwarded it to
you and Kimberly, we did get a request
from the town clerk uh for the as I
mentioned earlier, the board of uh
finance um uh meeting schedule for 2026.
Uh she's requesting it by December 1st.
So again, if you get it in uh you know,
address that in your next uh board
meeting with the new board, you should
have you should have an opportunity to
do that. I also forwarded a copy of the
email that I had sent to her last year
just so you have kind of a template and
see what see how I did. You don't
technically need to fill out the piece
of paper that she you know she sends
around a word document to be filled out
but you don't necessarily need to do
that. Uh but you do need to get the
information to them. Uh there is a legal
requirement for posting purposes. Um so
you know you can't you have to have it
uh posted 30 days in advance or I can't
remember exactly but it's in there. But
uh I would just take care of it at your
next meeting and and address it.
>> Okay. Thank you, Mark.
>> The reason why the town clerk asked for
it by December 31st is with less than 30
days notice, the first meeting of the
year will always be a special meeting,
which means you can't add or delete
things from the agenda.
>> She she actually asked for it by
December 1st.
>> December 1st
>> because that means any meeting after in
the new year will have met that 30-day
deadline. That's why they asked.
>> Yeah. But yeah. Yeah. I mean, yeah.
>> Yeah. I'm sure she's thinking holidays
and everything like that, but Yeah.
>> And you want to get it done.
>> Yeah.
>> Have to chase a few people maybe.
>> It's easier to get it done than not.
Yeah.
>> So, we'll address that next month.
>> Yeah. That should be on the agenda
>> for sure.
>> Okay. Okay. Um, anybody else?
Okay. Moving on to public speak. Um,
doesn't look like we have anybody left
>> unless anybody wants to be Yeah, I mean,
yeah, we've already done it.
>> Um, well, I I motion to adjurnn then.
>> I would I was Okay.
>> Sorry, Kim. Oh, Liz, I did I step on
you. I'm sorry.
>> That's fine. That's fine.
>> It's not my It was not my
>> That's okay. We can And it was seconded.
We could just have a open discussion
discussion. I just wanted to thank Jeff
for attending and joining us and um
>> yeah, agreed.
>> Going going forward, I think um even
having his council will be really
helpful with
>> the new board that's going to be coming
on coming on board. So,
>> um I just want to thank him.
>> Yeah, I completely agree with that, by
the way. And uh Jeff, do please, you
know, keep making the time. I appreciate
you're making the time uh because we're
all volunteers here. I get it. Uh but
yeah, I personally agree that it's
really good that we attend each other's
meetings. I have not had the time to
attend. It just happens to be that the
board of selectment meetings are bad
nights for me with my kids and stuff.
But yeah, I think it's very good that we
have this sort of open line of
communication where we have a face on
the screen and immediate feedback
instead of just watch our meeting. So,
thank you for being here.
>> Well, my intention is to make both the
board of finance and the board of
education meetings for the um probably
the remainder of the two years I have
left because I do think it's important.
And it's something I probably shouldn't
have been should have been doing
beforehand, but it just seems now that
there's a lot less
uh communication and and I hope your
board asks questions of the town and ask
questions of the board of education
because you guys are the ones that
determine how much money um we as a
community spend. You may not be able to
tell us or the board of education
exactly how to spend it when we move
money. And you do get transfer
opportunities to for us, but you got to
ask questions and that's all I'm going
to be here for.
>> We do.
>> You got to get information from
everybody because we're
uh you know, I wish we could sit there
and get a lot of money from businesses
and and have a lot more uh commerce, but
that's not how it is. So, we as
taxpayers and as volunteers pay all of
the the taxes that run our town. So,
questions, questions, questions. So,
thank you. I look forward to joining you
guys.
>> Thank you, Jeff.
>> All right. Any further comments?
Hearing none. All in favor of
adjournment.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> Yep. All in favor of adjournment.
>> Do you want to do the roll call? You
want to do a roll call, please?
>> Yep. Doing it. Rob. Rob. Yes.
>> Yes.
>> Louise.
>> Joanne.
>> Yes.
>> Yes. Mark.
>> Yes. Bill.
>> Yes.
>> Kim.
>> Yes. And me? Yes. As well. Thank you
all.
>> Thank you.
>> Thank you all. I will see you guys in a
month. Right.
>> Thanks, Liz. Nice job.